Best Engineering Blogs for System Design & Big Data Architecture
Understanding system design, big data architecture, and complex workflows is much easier when you learn from real-world examples and expert insights. Below is a curated list of top engineering blogs and platforms that excel in these areas. We’ve included both industry engineering blogs (tech companies sharing case studies and engineering stories) and independent/community blogs (well-regarded platforms offering cross-industry perspectives). Each entry has a brief description of its focus, notable posts or series, and why it’s useful. All links are provided (using UK English spelling and terms).

<style>        :root {        --accent: #464feb;        --timeline-ln: linear-gradient(to bottom, transparent 0%, #b0beff 15%, #b0beff 85%, transparent 100%);        --timeline-border: #ffffff;        --bg-card: #f5f7fa;        --bg-hover: #ebefff;        --text-title: #424242;        --text-accent: var(--accent);        --text-sub: #424242;        --radius: 12px;        --border: #e0e0e0;        --shadow: 0 2px 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.06);        --hover-shadow: 0 4px 14px rgba(39, 16, 16, 0.1);        --font: "Segoe Sans", "Segoe UI", "Segoe UI Web (West European)", -apple-system, "system-ui", Roboto, "Helvetica Neue", sans-serif;        --overflow-wrap: break-word;    }    @media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {        :root {            --accent: #7385ff;            --timeline-ln: linear-gradient(to bottom, transparent 0%, transparent 3%, #6264a7 30%, #6264a7 50%, transparent 97%, transparent 100%);            --timeline-border: #424242;            --bg-card: #1a1a1a;            --bg-hover: #2a2a2a;            --text-title: #ffffff;            --text-sub: #ffffff;            --shadow: 0 2px 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.3);            --hover-shadow: 0 4px 14px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);            --border: #3d3d3d;        }    }    @media (prefers-contrast: more),    (forced-colors: active) {        :root {            --accent: ActiveText;            --timeline-ln: ActiveText;            --timeline-border: Canvas;            --bg-card: Canvas;            --bg-hover: Canvas;            --text-title: CanvasText;            --text-sub: CanvasText;            --shadow: 0 2px 10px Canvas;            --hover-shadow: 0 4px 14px Canvas;            --border: ButtonBorder;        }    }    .insights-container {        display: grid;        grid-template-columns: repeat(2,minmax(240px,1fr));        padding: 0px 16px 0px 16px;        gap: 16px;        margin: 0 0;        font-family: var(--font);    }    .insight-card:last-child:nth-child(odd){        grid-column: 1 / -1;    }    .insight-card {        background-color: var(--bg-card);        border-radius: var(--radius);        border: 1px solid var(--border);        box-shadow: var(--shadow);        min-width: 220px;        padding: 16px 20px 16px 20px;    }    .insight-card:hover {        background-color: var(--bg-hover);    }    .insight-card h4 {        margin: 0px 0px 8px 0px;        font-size: 1.1rem;        color: var(--text-accent);        font-weight: 600;        display: flex;        align-items: center;        gap: 8px;    }    .insight-card .icon {        display: inline-flex;        align-items: center;        justify-content: center;        width: 20px;        height: 20px;        font-size: 1.1rem;        color: var(--text-accent);    }    .insight-card p {        font-size: 0.92rem;        color: var(--text-sub);        line-height: 1.5;        margin: 0px;        overflow-wrap: var(--overflow-wrap);    }    .insight-card p b, .insight-card p strong {        font-weight: 600;    }    .metrics-container {        display:grid;        grid-template-columns:repeat(2,minmax(210px,1fr));        font-family: var(--font);        padding: 0px 16px 0px 16px;        gap: 16px;    }    .metric-card:last-child:nth-child(odd){        grid-column:1 / -1;     }    .metric-card {        flex: 1 1 210px;        padding: 16px;        background-color: var(--bg-card);        border-radius: var(--radius);        border: 1px solid var(--border);        text-align: center;        display: flex;        flex-direction: column;        gap: 8px;    }    .metric-card:hover {        background-color: var(--bg-hover);    }    .metric-card h4 {        margin: 0px;        font-size: 1rem;        color: var(--text-title);        font-weight: 600;    }    .metric-card .metric-card-value {        margin: 0px;        font-size: 1.4rem;        font-weight: 600;        color: var(--text-accent);    }    .metric-card p {        font-size: 0.85rem;        color: var(--text-sub);        line-height: 1.45;        margin: 0;        overflow-wrap: var(--overflow-wrap);    }    .timeline-container {        position: relative;        margin: 0 0 0 0;        padding: 0px 16px 0px 56px;        list-style: none;        font-family: var(--font);        font-size: 0.9rem;        color: var(--text-sub);        line-height: 1.4;    }    .timeline-container::before {        content: "";        position: absolute;        top: 0;        left: calc(-40px + 56px);        width: 2px;        height: 100%;        background: var(--timeline-ln);    }    .timeline-container > li {        position: relative;        margin-bottom: 16px;        padding: 16px 20px 16px 20px;        border-radius: var(--radius);        background: var(--bg-card);        border: 1px solid var(--border);    }    .timeline-container > li:last-child {        margin-bottom: 0px;    }    .timeline-container > li:hover {        background-color: var(--bg-hover);    }    .timeline-container > li::before {        content: "";        position: absolute;        top: 18px;        left: -40px;        width: 14px;        height: 14px;        background: var(--accent);        border: var(--timeline-border) 2px solid;        border-radius: 50%;        transform: translateX(-50%);        box-shadow: 0px 0px 2px 0px #00000012, 0px 4px 8px 0px #00000014;    }    .timeline-container > li h4 {        margin: 0 0 5px;        font-size: 1rem;        font-weight: 600;        color: var(--accent);    }    .timeline-container > li h4 em {        margin: 0 0 5px;        font-size: 1rem;        font-weight: 600;        color: var(--accent);        font-style: normal;           }    .timeline-container > li * {        margin: 0;        font-size: 0.9rem;        color: var(--text-sub);        line-height: 1.4;    }    .timeline-container > li * b, .timeline-container > li * strong {        font-weight: 600;    }        @media (max-width:600px){      .metrics-container,      .insights-container{        grid-template-columns:1fr;      }    }</style><div class="insights-container">  <div class="insight-card">    <h4>Real-World Case Studies at Scale</h4>    <p>Official engineering blogs from companies like Netflix, Meta, Uber, and others share <b>how they solve large-scale technical challenges</b> in production. These blogs reveal design decisions behind highly scalable systems, data pipelines, and complex services – invaluable for learning practical system design.</p>  </div>  <div class="insight-card">    <h4>Independent Expert Perspectives</h4>    <p>Community platforms and personal blogs (e.g. High Scalability, All Things Distributed) offer <b>cross-industry insights</b> and timeless principles of architecture. They often analyse multiple companies’ approaches and break down advanced concepts, complementing the company blogs with broader lessons.</p>  </div></div>Show more lines

Tech Company Engineering Blogs (Industry-Focused)
These official blogs by tech companies provide deep dives into how their systems work. They often cover distributed system design, data infrastructure, scalability, and workflow orchestration through real examples and post-mortems. All are active and regularly updated with new content.
Netflix Tech Blog (Netflix TechBlog)
Focus: Netflix’s engineering blog is renowned for insights into distributed systems and scalable architecture behind its streaming platform. It’s essentially about “documenting lessons learned in creating highly available, highly scalable systems” for a top-tier streaming service. Key topics include microservices (Netflix was an early adopter), data processing pipelines (handling massive data for real-time analytics), and machine learning for recommendations. [netmidas.com] [index.dev] [index.dev], [index.dev]
Why it’s useful: Netflix shares how they design for resilience and scale in a global service used by millions. For instance, their posts on microservices architecture show how breaking a system into decoupled services improves flexibility and robustness. Netflix also pioneered chaos engineering – e.g. the famous “Chaos Monkey” tool – demonstrating techniques to test and harden system resiliency by intentionally causing failures. Reading Netflix’s engineering stories gives you concrete examples of tackling scalability, reliability, and performance challenges in a large distributed system. [index.dev]
Notable Posts/Series:

Netflix Conductor: A Microservices Orchestrator – Introduction of Netflix’s in-house workflow orchestration engine. This post explains how Conductor coordinates asynchronous tasks across many microservices, and how it handled over 2.6 million process flows, from simple to very complex, in its first year. (It was later open-sourced, underscoring Netflix’s influence on industry best practices.) [netflixtechblog.com]
Chaos Engineering (“Simian Army” series) – A classic series of posts (2011–2012) introducing tools like Chaos Monkey, which randomly destroys Netflix servers in production to ensure the system can fail gracefully. These posts helped popularise chaos engineering as a discipline for building robust, fault-tolerant systems.

👉 Link: https://netflixtechblog.com/ – Learn about Netflix’s world-class engineering efforts, culture, and more.
Uber Engineering Blog
Focus: Uber’s engineering blog offers a look into large-scale, real-time systems powering ride-sharing, food delivery, and logistics. It covers Uber’s challenges in areas like microservices architecture, data streaming, geospatial data, and machine learning at scale. The blog often discusses how Uber addresses efficiency, latency, and reliability in a highly dynamic environment (e.g. handling millions of ride requests with sub-second matchmaking). [index.dev], [index.dev]
Why it’s useful: Uber provides case studies on evolving a monolithic app into hundreds of microservices and the platform infrastructure needed to connect them. Posts about Uber’s Domain-Oriented Microservice Architecture detail how they organised services by business domains to improve autonomy and scalability. Uber is also known for its Big Data platform – an Uber blog post described managing 100+ petabytes with minute-level latency for analytics, showcasing their data lake and Hadoop ecosystem. These insights are valuable for understanding data architecture that balances batch and real-time processing. Furthermore, Uber’s solutions to coordinate many microservices are exemplified by their orchestration tool Cadence (open-sourced in 2017). On the blog, Uber engineers describe Cadence as “like a conductor that routes requests and mediates communications between microservices so they cooperate seamlessly”, built to be scalable and fault-tolerant. Cadence enables writing distributed workflows with reliability, making it “an excellent choice for dynamic, complex workflows” such as payment transactions or ML pipelines. [uber.com] [uber.com]
Notable Posts/Series:

Uber’s Big Data Platform: 100+ Petabytes with Minute Latency – A detailed case study of Uber’s analytics infrastructure. It explains how Uber evolved from ad-hoc databases to a robust Hadoop-based data lake, capable of aggregating tens of trillions of records and supporting diverse teams (operations, data science, engineering) with one unified platform. This post is a goldmine for learning about scaling data pipelines and ensuring data reliability at Uber’s scale. [uber.com]
Cadence Workflow Orchestration at Uber – A series on Uber’s Cadence engine for microservice orchestration. One highlight is how Cadence coordinates distributed processes “without missing a beat,” ensuring each service gets the data it needs and errors are caught before they cause issues. This gives readers insight into managing complex, multi-step workflows (like an Uber Eats order flow) in a microservices architecture. [uber.com], [uber.com]

👉 Link: Uber Engineering Blog – “The technology behind Uber” featuring engineering articles on systems, Data/ML, mobile, etc.
Meta Engineering Blog (Engineering at Meta)
Focus: The Meta (formerly Facebook) Engineering blog is a technical news resource for engineers interested in how Meta solves large-scale technical challenges. It covers the breadth of Meta’s platforms – Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, etc. – so topics range from backend infrastructure and storage systems to machine learning, AI, AR/VR, and front-end engineering. There is a strong focus on distributed computing, data management, and system performance needed to serve billions of users. [hojaleaks.com] [dev.to], [index.dev] [index.dev]
Why it’s useful: Meta’s services operate at a unique scale (Facebook alone has ~3 billion users), so the blog is full of lessons on designing ultra-large systems. You’ll find posts about scaling social graph databases, caching systems (e.g. Facebook’s famous memcache infrastructure), and consistency challenges across globally distributed data centers. Meta’s engineers often share innovative approaches they’ve developed – for example, the blog has covered Shard Manager for scaling services (automatic sharding and load balancing), and Async workflows at Facebook scale (handling asynchronous jobs for billions of requests). Meta also frequently open-sources tools; the blog discusses projects like Presto (distributed SQL engine) and how they run it at Meta’s scale, with ten years of learnings. This real-world experience in scaling data queries, or building systems like TAO (Facebook’s distributed datastore), offers valuable architectural patterns for reliability and efficiency. [highscalability.com]
Notable Posts/Series:

Scaling Memcache at Facebook – A classic Meta engineering article (archived on other sites) describing how Facebook scaled out its gigantic caching tier to support ever-increasing read load. It explains techniques like consistent hashing and regions, which are key system design concepts.
Shard Manager: Dynamic Sharding at Scale – Post about Meta’s internal tool Shard Manager for automatically splitting and migrating service load across servers as usage grows. This illustrates how Meta handles partitioning of services and data in response to growth, a crucial aspect of system design for scalability.
(Open Source Highlights) – Many Meta blog posts announce major open-source releases, which double as deep-dives into those systems’ design. For example, posts on Facebook’s GraphQL, RocksDB (storage engine), or Prophet (time-series forecasting) detail the problems these systems solve and design decisions made. These give a window into cutting-edge solutions for complex workflows and data processing (often directly applicable outside Meta).

👉 Link: https://engineering.fb.com/ – How Meta’s engineers build and scale systems for billions of users (official blog). [hojaleaks.com]
Airbnb Engineering & Data Science Blog
Focus: Airbnb’s tech blog shares how they build and maintain a global hospitality platform, with emphasis on service-oriented architecture, data engineering, and complex workflows in a two-sided marketplace. Key themes include scaling a website from a monolith to microservices, managing data pipelines and machine learning, and Airbnb’s contributions to the open-source community. [index.dev], [index.dev]
Why it’s useful: Airbnb is known for solving architecture challenges in a fast-growing startup-turned-enterprise environment. Their blog provides a candid look at transitions in architecture – for example, Airbnb detailed its migration from a monolithic Ruby on Rails app to a service-oriented architecture (SOA) around 2020. They discuss the benefits (faster development, independent deployment) and the new issues that arose (service management, data consistency), which is invaluable knowledge for anyone designing evolving systems. Airbnb’s engineering team has also innovated in the workflow orchestration space. Notably, they created Apache Airflow, now a popular open-source platform for scheduling and managing complex data workflows. In fact, Airflow was born out of Airbnb’s need to handle an “ever-growing number of complex workflows and data pipelines” beyond what cron could manage. The blog often covers such data infrastructure: how they ensure data reliability, perform A/B tests at scale, or build their streaming and batch data lakes. Additionally, Airbnb writes about open-source projects (like Airflow, Apache Superset for BI, etc.), demonstrating design solutions that readers can adopt. Overall, the Airbnb tech blog is a rich resource on designing for scalability and agility in a modern cloud-native setup. [index.dev]
Notable Posts/Series:

Service-Oriented Architecture at Airbnb – A series of posts on breaking the monolith. Airbnb engineers share why and how they split services, the challenges of distributed systems (e.g. debugging across many services), and tooling they built to manage the SOA. This offers practical insight into modular system design and organisational impact.
Airflow: Data Workflow Management – Though originally introduced on Airbnb’s blog in 2016, Airflow has a dedicated page now. Still, Airbnb’s posts (and conference talks) about Airflow’s design explain how to use directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) to reliably orchestrate tasks. It’s a classic example of solving complex workflow scheduling in a reusable way. The fact that Airbnb open-sourced Airflow and nurtured it into an Apache project underscores the blog’s value: it doesn’t just tell you what they built, but why and how – knowledge you can apply to your own big data pipelines.

👉 Link: Airbnb Engineering & Data Science Blog – Stories on scaling the Airbnb platform, from infrastructure to machine learning.
LinkedIn Engineering Blog
Focus: LinkedIn’s engineering blog covers how the professional network builds and scales a platform connecting hundreds of millions of users globally. It often dives into data infrastructure (since LinkedIn generates massive data streams), search and relevance algorithms, machine learning for recommendations, and general system design principles for large-scale social and enterprise software. [index.dev]
Why it’s useful: LinkedIn has contributed some fundamental building blocks of big data architecture – most famously Apache Kafka, the distributed streaming platform. LinkedIn’s blog (and engineering pages) recount how Kafka was developed in-house around 2010 to handle the site’s activity stream and operational metrics. Today Kafka remains “LinkedIn’s central data pipeline”, handling over 1.4 trillion messages per day across 1400+ brokers. By following LinkedIn’s posts, you gain insight into designing high-throughput, real-time data systems. The blog also covers LinkedIn’s search and feed systems, which must provide personalised results under heavy load, and stream processing (LinkedIn’s use of frameworks like Samza and Flink). Additionally, LinkedIn discusses system design challenges like consistency across services, online-offline data integration (their Venice project is a database for online features built from offline data), and A/B testing at scale. They emphasize trade-offs and best practices – for example, how to maintain reliability and low latency when your system scales to millions of qps (queries per second). LinkedIn's approach to data infrastructure and system design is highly instructive for anyone interested in big data architecture. [engineerin...nkedin.com]
Notable Posts/Series:

The Evolution of Apache Kafka at LinkedIn – Posts (and talks) detailing how LinkedIn produced Kafka and scaled it over the years. For instance, an article from 2016 “Kafka Ecosystem at LinkedIn” notes that Kafka was by then the backbone for LinkedIn’s data, and emphasizes why Kafka’s durability and low latency were key to LinkedIn’s architecture. It’s a real-world use case of a pub/sub system in a large enterprise. [engineerin...nkedin.com]
Scaling LinkedIn’s Feed and Search – LinkedIn engineers have shared how they redesigned the feed backend to incorporate ideas like online batch processing (Lambda architecture) and how they scale the graph search that underpins people/professional search. These posts illustrate end-to-end system design: from data ingestion, through storage (LinkedIn developed Espresso, a distributed database, also featured on their blog), to the user-facing API.
Data Infrastructure & AI – A recurring theme is how LinkedIn’s data team manages the flow of data for features like “People You May Know” or job recommendations. They have posts on their ML pipelines and feature stores, which are great for understanding how to productionise machine learning in a big-data context.

👉 Link: https://engineering.linkedin.com/blog – Explores technical challenges and solutions behind LinkedIn’s platform. [index.dev]
AWS Architecture Blog
Focus: Amazon Web Services’ Architecture Blog is somewhat different from the product-centric AWS news – it specifically shares cloud architecture best practices, patterns, and case studies drawn from Amazon and AWS customers. Topics include scalable cloud application design, serverless architectures, big data solutions, DevOps, and reliability engineering on AWS. [netmidas.com], [designgurus.io]
Why it’s useful: This blog is a treasure trove of reference architectures and prescriptive guidance for designing systems with high scalability and availability. Even though it’s AWS-oriented, the patterns (like event-driven microservices, CQRS, etc.) are cloud-agnostic concepts you can apply anywhere. The blog often features hands-on architectural discussions: for example, how to structure a multi-region active-active deployment, or how to use services like S3, DynamoDB, and Kafka (MSK) together to build a data pipeline. There are also case studies from various industries – e.g. how Netflix (on AWS) achieves reliability, or how fintech companies design for security and scale – which are effectively system design war stories. Additionally, AWS’s well-architected framework is reflected in many posts, teaching trade-offs around consistency, fault tolerance, cost optimisation, and performance. This makes it a great resource to understand the practical implementation of system design principles in the cloud.
Notable Posts/Series:

Architecture Patterns – Many posts introduce a generic pattern with an example. For instance, “Using event sourcing to handle distributed transactions” might show an architecture with Amazon Kinesis (stream) and Lambda, explaining how to ensure data consistency without a monolith. Another popular series is on Serverless Microservices, demonstrating how to orchestrate complex workflows with AWS Step Functions (a workflow engine), which parallels what one might do with custom orchestration frameworks in other contexts.
Scaling & Resilience Case Studies – Posts like “Scaling to millions of requests using Amazon DynamoDB” or “Optimising throughput for IoT workloads” provide concrete numbers and diagrams. These are excellent for learning how to pick the right database or messaging system for a given scale. The blog also revisits classic Amazon architecture lessons (often by Amazon’s own engineers), such as Werner Vogels’ “Eventually Consistent” approach in Dynamo – though Vogels’ personal blog (below) is where those originated, the AWS blog sometimes echoes those lessons for a modern cloud audience.

👉 Link: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/architecture/ – Cloud architecture patterns and best practices from AWS. [designgurus.io]

Independent & Community Engineering Blogs
These are well-regarded blogs or platforms not tied to a single company. They often synthesise experiences across many organisations or focus on fundamental principles of system design. They include personal blogs by technology leaders and community-driven sites. Many have “classic” posts that remain highly relevant.
High Scalability
Focus: High Scalability is a long-running independent blog focused on scalability, architecture, and system design topics across the tech industry. It’s known for its detailed architectural case studies of popular websites and services. The tagline of the site is “Building bigger, faster, more reliable websites”, which encapsulates its mission. [designgurus.io] [highscalability.com]
Why it’s useful: High Scalability provides an unparalleled archive of how various companies have scaled their systems. The blog often aggregates and summarises talks or write-ups from engineers at different firms, offering a one-stop resource to compare approaches. For example, you can find breakdowns of architectures for services like Twitter, Reddit, or Imgur, often titled like “How X Works” or “Scaling X: Lessons learned”. These usually outline the tech stack, data flow, and key decisions (caching, sharding, etc.) behind handling high load. High Scalability also covers general scalability patterns and best practices – posts on topics such as caching strategies, CAP theorem, NoSQL vs SQL trade-offs, messaging queues, etc., which are extremely valuable for system design fundamentals. Many “classic posts” on system design interviews and patterns link back to High Scalability for reference. Moreover, the site stays updated with guest posts: e.g., it has recent contributions on current technologies (a Kafka 101 article in 2024, a case study of scaling Uber Eats, etc.). Importantly, it surfaces lessons from failures too. Reading a variety of case studies here widens your perspective on how different constraints (finance, team size, legacy systems) can influence architecture decisions. This big-picture perspective complements learning from any single company’s blog.
Notable Content:

Case Study Archives: High Scalability’s “All Time Favorites” include write-ups like “7 Scaling Strategies from Facebook” or “The Architecture of Reddit”. These are distilled lessons from pioneers in web scalability, highlighting techniques like database sharding (Facebook’s early strategy), eventual consistency, or using CDN edge caching.
Articles on Principles: There are evergreen explanatory posts, such as “Latency vs Throughput” or “8 Common Scalability Patterns”, which break down the theory behind system design choices in simple terms. These help solidify your conceptual understanding.
Guest posts on new tech: Often, engineers from various companies will republish content on High Scalability. For example, a Meta engineer’s article “Lessons Learned Running Presto at Meta Scale” was featured, sharing four key learnings from operating a large distributed SQL engine for 10 years. Similarly, an Uber engineering director recapped “A Brief History of Scaling Uber” on the blog. This cross-pollination of content makes High Scalability a hub of industry knowledge beyond any single source. [highscalability.com]

👉 Link: http://highscalability.com – Independent blog on building large-scale systems (“bigger, faster, more reliable websites”). [highscalability.com]
All Things Distributed (Werner Vogels’ Blog)
Focus: All Things Distributed is the personal blog of Dr. Werner Vogels, Amazon’s CTO, and it famously covers his thoughts on building scalable and robust distributed systems. Werner often uses the blog to discuss architectural philosophies behind AWS and Amazon’s own platforms, sometimes announcing new paradigms (like eventually consistent databases, serverless computing vision, etc.). It also features general musings on cloud trends and occasional guest posts.
Why it’s useful: Werner Vogels has been at the forefront of distributed system design (his work includes the Amazon Dynamo paper, which influenced the NoSQL movement). His blog gives you a direct line to the mindset of a chief architect of one of the biggest cloud infrastructures. Many posts are now considered classic reading for system design practitioners. For example, the 2007 post “Amazon’s Dynamo” (essentially a summary of Amazon’s Dynamo key-value store research paper) laid out how Dynamo achieves high availability and partition tolerance in a large-scale database. This post introduced concepts like eventual consistency and hinted at techniques (consistent hashing, replication, hinted handoff) that are now textbook material for distributed data stores. All Things Distributed also had early discussions on microservices vs monoliths from Amazon’s perspective, the notion of “distributed computing primitives”, and how to architect for failures (Werner’s famous quote: “Everything fails, all the time” is often cited from his talks and reflected in his writing). In recent years, Vogels has used the blog to highlight modern challenges and solutions, like the rationale for Amazon’s internal re-architecture of certain systems (e.g., the Prime Video team’s decision to rebuild a microservices product as a monolith for efficiency – detailed in a 2023 post titled “Monoliths are not dinosaurs”). As such, the blog provides strategic insights into system design decisions at a high level, complementing hands-on technical blogs. It’s also a great place to learn about AWS design tenets without marketing fluff – e.g., posts on the “distributed computing manifesto” behind AWS Lambda or DynamoDB give you the “why” behind those services.
Notable Posts:

A Word on Scalability (2006) – In this early post, Werner defines what scalability really means in practical terms (when adding resources yields proportional results). It’s a concise primer that dispels common misconceptions and is often referenced in academic settings.
Amazon’s Dynamo (2007) – As mentioned, a seminal explanation of Dynamo, Amazon’s highly available datastore. This is a must-read to understand concepts like quorum reads/writes and the trade-offs Amazon made to achieve scale and fault tolerance (the learnings of which live on in systems like Apache Cassandra).
Eventually Consistent (2008) – Werner’s explanation of why eventual consistency is not only acceptable but often the preferred approach in distributed systems. This post justified a departure from strictly ACID databases for massive scale, and it’s very useful for understanding modern NoSQL design.
Now Go Build Series – In recent years, Werner occasionally shares videos and stories under “Now Go Build,” which highlight tech entrepreneurship and architectures in various startups globally. While not deep technical dives, they are inspiring and show how core principles of scalable design are applied in different contexts.
Monoliths vs Microservices – A 2023 article on how Amazon Prime Video reverted from microservices to a monolith for a particular service (to improve performance and reduce complexity) sparked much discussion in the community. It’s a great case study in challenging assumptions – reminding that “microservices are not a silver bullet” and that architecture should fit the problem.

👉 Link: https://www.allthingsdistributed.com/ – Werner Vogels’ blog on distributed system design. [hojaleaks.com]
Byte Byte Go (Alex Xu’s System Design Newsletter)
Focus: ByteByteGo is an educational platform and newsletter created by Alex Xu (author of the popular System Design Interview books). The ByteByteGo blog/newsletter specialises in explaining complex system design topics in simple, visual ways. It covers everything from fundamental concepts (caching, sharding) to specific tech (Kafka, Kubernetes) and use-case-driven designs (e.g. how to design a URL shortener or ride-sharing system). Content often includes diagrams, animations, mind maps, and cheat sheets to break down systems architecture. [dev.to]
Why it’s useful: ByteByteGo has quickly become a go-to resource for engineers preparing for system design interviews or just looking to strengthen their architecture skills. Unlike the company blogs that detail what a specific company did, ByteByteGo focuses on teaching patterns and concepts in a very digestible format. For example, a typical ByteByteGo issue might illustrate the internals of a load balancer or compare different database sharding strategies with friendly graphics. The explanations assume minimal prior knowledge and build up a mental model that you can apply to various scenarios. This makes it a great starting point for complex topics – you get the high-level view and terminology, which you can then deepen by reading the more technical blogs or papers. ByteByteGo also stays current with industry trends; recent newsletters have tackled things like distributed caching with Redis, designing real-time collaborative editing (like Google Docs), and the architecture of modern large-scale systems (sometimes drawing on public talks from Google, Meta, etc., but summarising them succinctly). Because it’s delivered as a weekly newsletter, it’s regularly updated and pulls in knowledge from across the tech world. In short, ByteByteGo is useful for learning system design (with a pragmatic, interview-oriented slant), complementing the doing/experiencing perspective you get from the other blogs.
Notable Content:

Visual System Design Guides: ByteByteGo often produces one-page visual guides – for instance, “System Design Blueprint” mind maps that outline all components one might consider (client -> load balancer -> server -> DB -> cache -> etc.). These are excellent revision material and help ensure you don’t miss elements when designing a system.
Real-World Case Studies (Visualised): Some posts take famous architectures (like Netflix or Uber, as discussed in their official blogs) and summarise them in a simplified diagram with commentary. This can be a quick way to grasp the essence of those case studies before diving into the full text.
Top N Lists and Comparisons: Alex Xu’s team also shares curated lists (much like this one!) and comparisons – e.g., “Top 9 engineering blogs”, or comparisons of similar technologies (SQL vs NoSQL illustrated, different message queue systems, etc.). This curated approach helps identify quality resources and tools in the vast landscape of system design info.

👉 Link: https://blog.bytebytego.com/ – “Explain complex systems with simple terms,” featuring interactive visuals and tutorials. (Free weekly issues are available via Substack.) [dev.to]

In Summary: The engineering blogs above are excellent pathways to mastering system design, big data architecture, and complex workflow management. By regularly reading these, you’ll gain exposure to how top engineers solve real-world problems at scale – from streaming video to ride-hailing to massive social networks. For example, you can learn how Netflix optimises microservices for streaming, how Uber processes geospatial data in real-time, how Meta handles billions of interactions with a distributed infrastructure, and how platforms like High Scalability distill the lessons from all of them. Many of these blogs also have archives of classic posts (some referenced above) that remain relevant as ever. [index.dev]
Keep in mind that the true value comes from not just reading, but reflecting and applying these insights. Try to connect the patterns you read about with design challenges you encounter in your own work. Over time, you will build a arsenal of approaches for designing reliable, scalable systems. Whether you’re preparing for an architecture interview or building a new product, these blogs will serve as both an inspiration and a knowledge base. Happy reading, and may your systems be ever scalable and your workflows ever efficient! [netmidas.com]
